# DeepLearning
## Stock Price Prediction using Deep Learning
### Executive Summary
Stock market’s characteristics move independently at every point in time, i.e. they have a random walk characteristic. Due to this stock market prediction using previous information becomes challenging.Stock market prediction can be categorized into fundamental analysis and technical analysis[1].In fundamental analysis all the elements that affect the intrinsic value of the company are analyzed and technical analysis is used to predict the future stock price through graph analysis. Due to limitation of fundamental analysis, many studies related to stock market prediction using technical analysis have been conducted.[2] 

In recent years, a lot of researches have suggested artificial neural networks(ANNs) to be advantageous in stock market prediction[3-6]. However, since many financial market variables are intertwined with each other directly or indirectly, the deep learning models are used in combination with the technical indicators for stock prediction.

In this project, a stock price prediction model based on convolution neural network(CNN) and technical analysis is proposed to predict increase/decrease of stock prices. CNN is most commonly used to analyze images and can improve learning performance by convolution and pooling processes[7].For applying the CNN, various technical indicators, have been generated as predictors along with candle stick images of monthly data were converted to images of the time series graph.Technical indicators RSI(Relative strength index) and SMA(Simple moving averages)are calculated for the data, further monthly data along with these technical indicators are used to generate the input image. The python library “mpl-finance” is used to achieve input image generation. The code for image and dataset generation can be found in “CandleSticks.py”. The stock price prediction model proposed in this study learns the moving pattern of the independent variables for 1 month and forecasts the increase or decrease in the stock price of the next day.
